<div class="page-header">
    <h1>Releases History <small>This page is about release information for SMSSync. It provides changelogs and version numbers of old releases, and details of current stable and development branches.</small></h1>
</div>

# Current Release

* Released March 20<sup>th</sup>, 2013
* Version [v2.0.2](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v2.0.2)

### Changelog

* Feature:
  * Show confirmation prompt when attempting to import SMS
  * Added RegExp support to keyword filtering.
  * Added more useful HTTP and server error messages
  * Simplified the actionbar menu. Only show the relevant menus
  * Updated notification code to make use of the notification.compact library
  * Add Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian languages

* Bug:
  * Fix wifi lock issue. See [#56](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/issues/56)
  * Improved wording and typos in the strings file
  * Disable excessive "no task enabled" notifications
  * Fix ID issue. Now uses UUID instead. See [#60](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/issues/60).
  * Fix issue with auto sync failing.

# Previous releases

* Released October 22<sup>nd</sup>, 2012
* Version [v2.0.1](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v2.0.1)

### Changelog

* Feature:
    * Resizable widgets to fit on most screens.
    * Upgraded ABS library to 4.2.0.
    * Added Korean translation.

* Bug:
    * Fixed an issue with pending messages. See issue [#44](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/issues/44)
    * Removed screen restriction support from manifest file. This is to allow it to show up on the Google play store for most devices.

* Released September 3<sup>rd</sup>, 2012
* Version [v2.0.0](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v2.0.0)

### Changelog

* Feature:
    * Improved the UI. Optimized it to scale well on tablet devices.
    * Added the ability to manage multiple Sync URLs and the ability to sync messages to them.
    * Added icons to actionbar menu instead of just text.
    * Cleaned up code based making it more modular and easier to maintain.
    * Increased the frequency options for the various schedulers. Added 1 minute, 2 minutes, 3 minutes and 4 minutes.
    * Dropped support for devices running 1.6. This is to allow us to take advantage of the new Android APIs.

* Bug:
    * Fixed task checking issue. It now frequently pings client for tasks.
    * sent_timestamp variable  now sends the raw timestamp instead of the preformatted one. This is to allow the client to have control of the formatting.
    * Removed the characters constraints to Unique ID field.


* Released December 12<sup>th</sup>, 2011
* Version [v1.1.9](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v1.1.9)
### Changelog

* Bug:
    * Fixed missing title
    * Reformatted sent_timestamp to `13.11.11 14:59` instead of `11-13-11-02:59`
    * Added 5 more languages - French, Japanese, Danish, Russian and Serbian

* Released November 10<sup>th</sup>, 2011
* Version [v1.0.9](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v1.0.9)

### Changelog

* Bug:
    * Fixed HTTPS not working on some devices.
    * Fixed sent_to variable not sending the device's phone number. 
    * Fixed formatting issue with sent_timestamp.

* Released October 27<sup>th</sup>, 2011
* Version [v1.0.8](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v1.0.8)

### Changelog

* Feature:
    * Added filtering when importing SMS.
    * Added sent_to variable so the server can receive the phone number the SMS was sent to.
    * Added message_id variable so the server can receive the unique id of the SMS.
    * Added full HTTPS support.
  
* Bug:
    * Fixed issue with app widget not refreshing when pending messages are in the view.
    * Improved performance with syncing pending messages. 


* Released September 25<sup>th</sup>, 2011
* Version [v1.0.7](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v1.0.7)

### Changelog


* Released September 23<sup>rd</sup>, 2011
* Version [v1.0.6](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v1.0.6)

### Changelog

* Feature:
    * Added improvement to the app's battery consumption.
    * Added the ability for enabled services to automatically start after the phone boots up.
    * Added the ability for the App to lock WiFi connection.
    * Added the ability for 'response messages' to be received from the server and not wait on a scheduler.
    * Added confirmation dialog when performing delete actions.
    * Added a tab that harbours 'pending messages' view and 'sent messages' view.
    * Added the ability for the app to log recent sent messages. Twenty is the Max.
    * Added 'sent_timestamp' post variable in order to send the timestamp of an SMS.
    * Added App widget support.

Bug:
    * Fixed a bug that when all messages are deleted, the app shows a failure message yet the messages are deleted.
    * Fixed the issue of 'pending messages' view not updating after pending messages are deleted by a background service.


* Released February 25<sup>th</sup>, 2011
* Version [v1.0.5](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v1.0.5)

### Changelog

* Feature:
    * Scheduler automatically syncs pending messages to the configured Callback URL.
    * Now sends out messages from the configured callback URL as text message.
    * Imports messages from Android messages app inbox for synchronizing to the configured callback URL.
    * Added context menu for deleting or synchronizing pending messages.   

* Bug:
    * Improved callback URL validation process; Added more checks. Empty, malformed and connection checks.
    * More sanity checks before SMSSync can be enabled. 

* Known issue:
    * Scheduler doesn't refresh pending messages' list after it runs. The pending messages screen needs to be restarted. 


* Released January 31<sup>st</sup>, 2011
* Version [v1.0.4](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v1.0.4)

### Changelog

* Bug:
    * Notification cannot be cleared until SMSSync is stopped.
    * Failed Messages now get sent to the outbox folder for later manual syncing when data connection is lost.

* Released January 31<sup>st<sup>, 2011
* Version [v1.0.3](https://github.com/ushahidi/SMSSync/tree/v1.0.4)

### Changelog

* Bug:
    * Downgraded to Android 1.6 so SMSSync works from 1.6 and above.
    * Now SMS can be deleted from the SMS inbox. This is a configurable option. 
    * Fixed issue with the secret variable.
    * Better support for localization - All hardcoded strings have been moved to the string.xml file.
    * Supports outbox for pending messages that need to be synced manually.
    * Improved SMS background service - now it starts and stops perfectly.
    * Added version number to the powered by text on the Settings screen.
    * Changed notification Icon to SMSSync's slick launch icon.
    * Shows status of Pending messages. Whether there are pending messages or not.
    * Prepopulates URL field with "http://" when setting up the sync URL.
    * Sends an auto response once the SMS is recieved. This is a configurable option.
    * Validates the callback URL.
